Best libraries for coding a 2.5d RTS in Javascript. I currently use three.js. Would libaries like Babyon.js, Yuca.js and ECS help?

Yes, those libraries would be extremely helpful for building an RTS and are a natural next step from using only Three.js.

You've essentially hit on the three core pillars of a modern game engine:

Rendering (Three.js/Babylon.js): Drawing things on the screen.

AI/Logic (Yuka.js): Controlling unit behavior, movement, and pathfinding.

Architecture (ECS): Organizing your entire game and all its objects.

Here’s a breakdown of how each one helps and how they fit together.

How These Libraries Would Help You
Babylon.js (Alternative Renderer): Think of this as a direct, more "game-focused" alternative to Three.js. While Three.js is a brilliant rendering library, Babylon.js is built more like a "game engine." For an RTS, it has several key advantages:


Built-in Game Features: It comes with many features you'd otherwise have to find libraries for, like a robust scene inspector (amazing for debugging), multiple camera types (like an ArcRotateCamera, perfect for RTS), and better-integrated physics.

Official RTS Tutorial: The Babylon.js official documentation has a video series on building an RTS, which is a massive head start.

TypeScript-First: It's built in TypeScript, which can be a huge benefit for managing a large, complex RTS project.

Verdict: You don't need to switch from Three.js, but if you're early in development, Babylon.js might save you a lot of time by providing more game-ready tools out of the box.

Yuka.js (AI & Movement): This is a huge help. Yuka is a standalone AI engine designed to be decoupled from the renderer. It doesn't care if you use Three.js or Babylon.js. It's built to handle the exact problems you'll face in an RTS:

Steering Behaviors: "Seek," "flee," "arrive," "pursue," and "avoidance." This is how you make a unit move toward a target or dodge other units.

Pathfinding: It includes tools to create a navigation mesh (a "map" of walkable areas) and find the optimal path for your units.

State Management: You can build simple AI brains (e.g., a unit is in an "IDLE," "MOVING," or "ATTACKING" state).

Verdict: Absolutely use this. Trying to write all this AI and avoidance logic from scratch is a massive, complex task. Yuka is purpose-built for it.

ECS (Your Game's Architecture): This is the most important concept on your list. ECS (Entity Component System) is an architectural pattern, not a specific library (though you use a library to implement it). It's the "glue" that holds everything together and is perfect for an RTS with thousands of objects.

Here’s the core idea:

Entity: A simple ID. An entity is just a number, like unit_101 or building_42.

Component: Pure data. Components are just objects that hold information, like PositionComponent { x: 10, y: 0, z: 5 }, HealthComponent { current: 100, max: 100 }, or SelectableComponent {}.

System: Pure logic. Systems are functions that run every frame and operate on entities that have specific components.

MovementSystem: Grabs all entities that have a PositionComponent and a VelocityComponent and updates their position.

RenderSystem: Grabs all entities that have a PositionComponent and a ThreeJSComponent (which holds a THREE.Mesh) and updates the mesh's position.

AISystem: Grabs all entities with a YukaAgentComponent and tells Yuka to update their logic.

Verdict: Yes, you should use an ECS. It prevents "spaghetti code" and is incredibly performant, which is critical when you have hundreds of units. Popular ECS libraries include Miniplex or bitECS.

How They All Fit Together
This is the standard architecture you'd be building:

ECS is the "Boss": Your ECS library manages your game state.

Your "Marine" unit isn't a giant Marine class. Instead, it's an entity with these components:

PositionComponent { ... }

HealthComponent { ... }

SelectableComponent {}

RenderComponent { mesh: your_three_js_mesh }

AIComponent { agent: your_yuka_js_agent }

Yuka.js is the "Brain": Your AISystem (part of the ECS) runs every frame.

It tells Yuka, "Update all agents."

Yuka's steering and pathfinding logic runs. It calculates a new position for your "Marine."

Yuka updates the data in the PositionComponent.

Three.js is the "Eyes": Your RenderSystem (part of the ECS) runs right after.

It looks at all entities with a RenderComponent and a PositionComponent.

It reads the new position from the PositionComponent (which Yuka just updated).

It sets your_three_js_mesh.position to that new position.

This separation is beautiful: your AI logic (Yuka) doesn't know anything about Three.js, and your rendering code (Three.js) doesn't know anything about AI. The ECS just connects the data between them.

For a great example of this, check out the Yuka.js Zombie Robot demo, which uses Yuka for AI and Three.js for rendering.

This video on the Yuka library provides a practical tutorial on how to add AI to Three.js entities. Yuka AI with Three.js Tutorial This video is relevant because it directly demonstrates how to integrate Yuka.js (the AI library you asked about) with Three.js (the rendering library you currently use) to create steering behaviors, which are essential for RTS units.

Wander Steering Behavior With Yuka - Three.js & AI Tutorial - YouTube
Wael Yasmina · 2.7K views


any other libraries that would help?

Absolutely. The stack you've outlined (Renderer + AI Engine + Architecture) is the core, but an RTS has several other major systems. Here are the other key categories and the best-in-class libraries to solve them.

1. Physics & Collision Detection
Yuka.js handles avoidance (steering to not bump into things), but it's not a true physics engine. For an RTS, you'll need a physics engine for things like:

Fast, "kinematic" collision detection (e.g., "is this unit running into a wall?").

Projectile collision (e.g., "did this tank shell hit that unit?").

Using invisible physics shapes (like cylinders) to represent your units.

My Top Recommendation: Rapier.js

Why: It is an extremely fast, modern physics engine written in Rust and compiled to WebAssembly (WASM). It's far more performant than older JavaScript-based engines, which is critical when you might have hundreds of units and projectiles to simulate.

Alternative: cannon-es

A well-maintained, community fork of the original cannon.js. It's pure JavaScript, easier to get started with, and integrates well with Three.js, but it is not as fast as Rapier.

2. User Interface (UI)
This is a massive part of an RTS. You need a minimap, resource displays, unit command cards, and a selection box. Do not try to build this inside Three.js.

My Top Recommendation: The HTML DOM (CSS + UI Framework)

Why: The best, easiest, and most flexible way to build a game UI is to use what the web is already built for: HTML and CSS.

How: You layer your 2D HTML UI on top of your 3D <canvas> element using CSS (e.g., position: absolute).

Recommended Tool: Use a simple UI framework like Svelte or React to manage the state of your UI. For example, when your ECS "SelectableComponent" is added to a unit, you tell your Svelte/React app to show the unit's command card. This keeps your game logic and UI logic completely separate.

3. Networking (for Multiplayer)
If your RTS is multiplayer (most are), this is non-negotiable. You need a server to manage the game state and client-side libraries to talk to it.

My Top Recommendation: Colyseus

Why: It is a full-featured, authoritative multiplayer game server framework for Node.js. It's not just a simple websocket library; it's designed specifically for games. It handles room management, lobbies, and (most importantly) state synchronization out of the box. This will save you months of development time.


Alternative: Geckos.io

If you just want a simple, fast, and low-level way to send data, Geckos.io is a great library. It wraps WebRTC data channels (which use UDP, ideal for games) in a simple, Socket.IO-like API.

4. Audio
Your game will feel empty without sound. You'll need unit barks ("Yes, sir!"), weapon sounds, and background music. The native Web Audio API is very complex.

My Top Recommendation: Howler.js

Why: It's the industry-standard JavaScript audio library. It simplifies everything: loading, playing, pausing, looping, and fading sounds. It supports audio sprites (combining all your unit sounds into one file) and 3D spatial audio (making a sound come from a specific unit in your Three.js scene).

5. Advanced Pathfinding (NavMesh Generation)
This is a level-up from Yuka.js. Yuka can find a path on a navigation mesh (navmesh), but how do you create that navmesh from your complex 3D level geometry?

My Top Recommendation: recast-navigation-js

Why: This is a WebAssembly port of the industry-standard Recast & Detour library. It's the same toolset used by major game engines like Unity and Unreal. You feed it your level's geometry (the ground, walls, buildings), and it generates a "navmesh" (a 3D map of all walkable areas) that you can then feed directly into Yuka.js for high-quality pathfinding.
